= Pallet - Easy, fast and secure file sharing in your Browser

- http://www.meso.net/pallet

== Description

Pallet lets you up- and download files using your browser with a simple interface. 

== Features

* Much easier to (install, configure and) use than a FTP client
* Multiple file upload
* One-Click-Access allows giving access to users restricted to a specified
  period of time, without generating user accounts
* Optional read-only access
* Skinnable Interface, using modified jQuery themes
* Simple setup
* Compatible to use Pallet managed files and directories with FTP and LAN at the same time
* Allowed file type and file size configurable
* LDAP support
* File transfer can be secured with SSL

== Requirements

=== Server Side

* Ruby 1.8.6 (www.ruby-lang.org)
* RubyGems 1.3.1 (http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126)
* Rails 2.3.5 (http://rubyonrails.org/down)
* Authlogic 2.0.13 (http://github.com/binarylogic/authlogic)
* ruby-net-ldap 0.0.4 (http://net-ldap.rubyforge.org/rdoc/)
* rubyzip 0.9.1 (gem install rubyzip)
* SMTP or a Sendmail server for sending system emails (only if the system 
  should send emails to newly created users or to One-Click-Access recipients)

=== User Side

* JavaScript activated in the browser for active usage (creating directories, 
  uploading files, administration)
* Flash for multi-file upload

== Installing Pallet

1. Clone the repository

  git clone git://github.com/hanssen/pallet.git
  
2. Copy config/*.yml.example to config/*.yml
3. Edit the DB connection configuration in database.yml
4. Edit the Settings configuration in settings.yml

5. Start the setup script (will create DB, set random forgery protection secret, create admin account)

  rake bootstrap RAILS_ENV=production
  
6. Start the server

  ruby script/server
  
=== Optional

If you want to use LDAP authentification:

Edit config/auth.yml, set "enable_ldap" to true.

If you want to send automatic One-Click-Access invitation mails via SMTP:

Adjust config/oca_mailer.yml to your needs. Delete config/oca_mailer.yml to use the built-in system mailer.

If you do want to use x-sendfile (Lighttpd/Apache2) in production environment:

Edit config/settings.yml, set "x_sendfile" to false in production scope.

If you want to use the nginx x-accel-redirect in production env:
Uncomment the x_accel_redirect line in config/settings.yml in the production scope.

== After Installation / First Server start

You should have entered login data to create an admin account during setup.
If not, please create an admin account now using the rake task:

  rake create_admin_user
  
Open the Pallet system in your browser and enter the login data for the 
recently created admin user.

The System Preferences page will appear, where you can adjust the default configuration.

Continue with creating your first pallet.

Now you are ready to easily share files with friends or customers.

== Additional Information

Copyright (c) 2010, MESO Web Scapes, Sascha Hanssen (hanssen@meso.net)
All rights reserved.

* Author: MESO Web Scapes (www.meso.net)
* License: MIT License
* GitHub: http://github.com/hanssen/pallet
* Maintainer: Sascha Hanssen <hanssen@meso.net>

Contributor(s):
* Sascha Hanssen <hanssen@meso.net>
* Mathias Wollin <wollin@meso.net>
* Markus Seeger <seeger@meso.net>



== License

Copyright (c) 2010, MESO Web Scapes, Sascha Hanssen (hanssen@meso.net) 
See MIT-LICENSE.txt in this directory.
